hi there in this section I'll give you a
formula for writing task 1 I'll tell you
how to write it I'll show you an example
of an excellent response and give you an
exercise to help you put this formula
into practice let's get started I'm
going to explain a very helpful for step
formula you should follow to write a
complete answer the four steps are
identify describe compare and conclude
now I'll explain each one of these in
more detail formula identify describe
compare and conclude the IELTS writing
task 1 formula looks like this in the
first paragraph you should identify what
the image is about here you identify and
say what the image shows here you just
reword the heading paragraph 2 in
paragraph 2 you should describe the main
trends this is where you describe what
you see what is interesting or
noticeable about the movement or
direction of the data in general
paragraph 3 here you compare the
relevant features you compare the data
and support it with evidence from the
image and finally in paragraph 4
you've more you make a conclusion about
the data in general
now let's have a look at a sample
writing task one that uses this formula
first let's have a look at the bar chart
we can see that the heading says the
number in millions of people downloading
music in the US and Canada we can see
that the legend shows us the u.s. is in
dark orange and Canada is in light
orange we see the vertical axis on the
Left shows us the number in millions and
the horizontal axis shows us the years
so now that we know what the child is
about we can have a look at our example
the first paragraph we identify the
graph shows the number of Canadians and
Americans in the millions that
downloaded music between the years 2000
and 2015 you can see here that we have
reworded the heading paragraph 2 we
describe the main trends it can be seen
that Americans generally downloaded more
music than Canadians with the exception
of the year 2005 when the number of
Canadians downloaded music far
outweighed the number of Americans in
paragraph 3 we compared the relevant
features the data shows that music
downloaded is generally more popular in
the US with numbers exceeding 4 million
in both 2000 and 2015 and reaching a low
of just over 2 million in 2005 in
contrast Canada remained at just under 3
million in all of the years surveyed
except 2005 when the number reached over
4 million the US showed an increasing
trend from 2005
five to 2015 rising exponentially every
five years whereas the number of
downloads in Canada fluctuated starting
at just over two million in 2000 and
then doubling to over four million in
2005 he then dropped by more than half
to under three million in 2015 the
conclusion paragraph makes a general
conclusion about the data overall the
u.s. showed an increasing trend while
Canada displayed a fluctuation summary
in this lesson we looked at how to write
writing task 1 we saw that the formula
is identify what the image is about
describe the main trends compare
relevant data and draw a general
conclusion about the data now you can
practice this formula with the model
writing exercise provided thanks for
watching